>> Kyle Simpson: As I've been making this
case for coercion, one of the things that
may have been floating in the back of
your mind is, yeah, but the coercion
problem that I have is not with
the plus operator, or an if statement.
The big coercion problems
that most people seem to have
seem to center around equality checking.
And the same message that I have for
all of coercion is going to apply for
coercive equality as well.
But I wanna dig specifically into
some issues about the == versus ===,
since this is really the place where
most people focus their attention
when they talk about coercion.
In fact most people haven't thought
about coercion any other place
other than the == verse the ===.
So there's some further dissection.
So how many of you have heard before
that the difference between == and
=== is that == checks the value so
called loose equality and
=== checks the value in the type so
called strict equality?
This is extremely common.
And unfortunately even though it sounds
really good it's not exactly the case.
That's not exactly the difference.
And it's not just an academic nuance here.
The difference really changes
our perspective on the utility,
the purpose of these two
mechanisms in our language.
So, I really think that if you're
trying to understand your code,
it's critical that you learn
to think like JavaScript,
that's sort of been
the thesis going along.
And the same is true for double equals and
triple equals, that just saying,
well, it's sort of one seems to check
the type and the other doesn't.
That may get you by in some circumstances,
but
in other circumstances it leads you
to completely different conclusions.
So consistent with everything else that
we've done, let's look at the spec.
This is the spec for
what is called abstract equality
comparison, which is the double equals.
And if double equals only checks the value
and triple equals checks the value and
the type, then why write up here
at the very top of the algorithm,
the very fast thing,
are the types of x and y checked?
Immediately we can debunk the myth
that the difference between these two
is whether the types are the same.
That isn't the difference.
They both checked the types,
it's just that
one does something different with that
information than the other one, okay?
So number 1, the source of truth is
always the spec, as we keep saying.
And if you choose to persist in not
completely correct mental models
that seem to work in some scenarios,
eventually the longer the time span goes,
eventually you'll run into a case
where you're in a different scenario,
your mental model is busted,
and now you're lost.
I think it's better to have
the correct mental model.
Just like the other places of the spec
that I have cited for you, this is
an algorithm with if statements and then
statements and variables and operations.
So it's something that you as
a developer can understand.
The vast majority of JavaScript developers
have never once read this section.
All they've ever heard about
the double equals is what is said
online about double equals and
in books about double equals.
Which is almost never citing
what the spec talks about.
But only citing some anecdotal
evidence why they think it's worthy.
So reading the spec can be useful.
For example, if I have a string, Frank,
that I've assigned to one variable, and
then I create another copy, essentially,
that's what's happening on line 2,
so now I have two strings.
And if on line 7 I try to ask if those two
are equal, like I am on line 7 and line 8.
In both cases, they are equal.
Because it turns out that when
the types match, then they do the ===.
The double equals and
the triple equals are exactly
identical when the types match.
There is absolutely no difference.
And the spec says so.
When the types match,
do the triple equals.
That's what I just highlighted for you.
And we can see that in code.
In any place where the value types
already match, and by the way, as I
said a bunch of times already, you should
try to have the value types obvious, and
ideally, you should have them
matching as much as possible.
That doesn't mean you can
never have coercion, but
you shouldn't have lots of places
where you're doing comparisons.
You certainly shouldn't be
doing equality comparisons and
have absolutely no idea
what the types are.
It's interesting to me that many people
seem to suggest that it is impossible for
them to program and understand what types
could be coming in to this comparison.
And I don't know how you can write any
algorithm without having some sense of
well these are always numbers and
these are always strings.
How can you say, well I have no idea?
It could be an array it could be null.
I have no idea what it could possibly be.
And even if you don't know, that doesn't
mean that it has to stay that way.
You can choose to redesign your code so
that you've narrowed the surface area
of places where those different kinds
of types can intermatch,
can interweave with each other.
You've narrowed those corner
cases that exist with coercion.
So I wouldn't write a function that
could take null, undefined string,
number, object, array,
and 14 other types, and
then all compare them with a ==,
that's ludicy, right?
But I would write a function that
could take strings and numbers and
compare them with a ==.
Because there's a very known and
small subset of potential
corner cases to work around.
And those are avoidable
if you pay attention.
So in the case where the types already
match, == and === are the same.
So what is === doing?
Well, it's also checking the types, and
if they're not the same, it's false.
It doesn't matter what the values are,
if the types are different,
it doesn't do anything else.
It sorta short-circuits and says,
if the types are different there's no
possible way that they could be equal.
If you think about that with respect
to what double equals is gonna do,
which we're gonna look
at in just a moment.
Essentially the real difference
between strict equality and
loose equality is whether or not we're
going to to allow any coercion to occur.
So what us Strict Equality is gonna
do if the types are the same?
Well it's going to,
return false if they're NaNs,
because remember it's
supposed to lie about NaNs.
And it's gonna return true if there's a
negative zero because it's supposed to lie
about negative zeros.
But it only does the lies
if the types already match.
Otherwise, it says false and
it didn't check anything at all.
So maybe the more appropriate
statement would be
that they both check the types one of
them stops early and one of them doesn't.
Or said a different way, the difference
is whether we allow coercion.
So here, I have two objects, all right?
They have the same structure and
ostensibly the same value.
But they are not the same object.
They are two different objects.
A lot of times people get confused with
JavaScript's built in equality checking
that it's somehow not
structural in nature,
that it doesn't do like
a deep assertion check that
the structure of one object is exactly
the same as a structure of another object.
Maybe there are languages like that,
but I don't know
of that to be a prevailing thing that's
built into an operator in a language.
Most operators seem to do what JavaScript
does, which is identity comparison.
If workshop1 and workshop 2 pointed at
literally the same object reference then
their identity would be the same and
you'd get true.
But in this particular case,
they're not equal, okay?
So neither == nor === is gonna return
a true because they are different objects.
Everybody follow me?
They're different objects,
they are not the same.
And so
it doesn't matter which one you use,
you're still gonna get the same result.
>> Kyle Simpson: So in other words,
the == is going to allow coercion
when the types were different.
And the === is going to disallow
coercion when the types are the same.